you will notice that in the background
it's not my usual t-shirt this is a
t-shirt we very memorably picked up at a
street protest in Vancouver British
Columbia Canada a very earnest very
small protest I posted photographs of it
on the Internet of Vietnamese refugees
asking why can't Vietnam also become a
democracy with voting the freedom of
speech to criticize government dissent
pluralism really we mean pluralism of
political opinion here multiple party
competition all those things we take for
granted in the Western world why not why
not Vietnam also in the year 2019 or
2020 or as soon as possible why not and
then of course in the Canadian context
why can't the Government of Canada make
some sincere efforts to encourage this
kind of political change to happen it is
very very easy for people to sink into
pessimism about democracy about the
potential for countries like Vietnam and
North Korea and China countries around
the world to make the transition from
dictatorship to democracy and the
purpose of this video long story short
is to argue that that pessimism is
misplaced in a pause now for a brief
sort of channel update I've hinted
repeatedly that what I'm doing with my
channels plural what I'm doing on
YouTube is about to change very
fundamentally dramatically that change I
would say has been delayed by about one
month because we're right now in the
process of packing up and moving to
Taiwan we're moving from Canada to
Taiwan with Taiwan being our home
presumably for the indefinite future for
as long as the future lasts we will see
so this video like the majority of my
videos about politics is gathering
together and reflecting on the
accumulated research of the past 20
years really more than 20 years in my
life and that's not what I want to do on
YouTube I want to start really creating
original content for the audience that's
based on
active research ongoing research by
learning new things
am i challenging myself and where it's
not really a process of me making videos
that I would find interesting but of me
trying to form a trying to serve a
public service by really providing
information that the world can't easily
get because I'm aware of just how poor
political analysis on YouTube through
podcasts through radio even through
print media by I paid for subscription
to FP FP abbreviates foreign policy
magazine whoo we were going through a
really really dark period for journalism
even on the most mainstream of questions
in politics let alone I don't know
really fundamental questions like the
future of democracy in Vietnam in China
those shouldn't be trivial concerns but
that they're treated as incredibly
marginal obscure topics as if they're
not of interest to I don't know a
billion people
both on the left and on the right I
encounter a great deal of pessimism
about parliamentary democracy so many of
my videos to talk about the contrast
between democracy in a deeper sense
going back to Athens and Aristotle and
so on and so forth this video were
instead dealing with the contrast
between outright dictatorship
whether that's communist dictatorship or
fascist dictatorship or just air SATs
military tea up the contrast between
dictatorship and shallow modern
parliamentary democracy not the higher
ideals of democracy we've inherited from
the ancient Athenian tradition or those
other more philosophical questions the
left wing and the right wing are both
incredibly cynical about the potential
for parliamentary democracy in the 21st
century but it's interesting to note
that their cynical for completely
different reasons when I talk to
right-wingers all over the world
including for example a meta right
winger who was part of the dictatorship
in Haiti so that was the Papa Doc
Duvalier dictatorship followed by his
son his son was nicknamed baby doc
Duvalier the son of the older develop
Haiti had a series of dictatorships and
uh you know I remember when I was first
meeting and in fact interviewing that
guy I thought wow I never thought I'd
come face to face with the supporter of
that regime it's incredibly notorious
dictatorial regime and he was a true
believer he was an earnest right-wing
supporter and he was typical of both the
right-wing and I don't know hardline
conservatives in that the most
fundamental reason for why he supported
the dictatorship again keep his mind
left wingers totally different reasons
for making the same excuses different
motivations different objectives his
fundamental reason was that he did not
believe the people were capable of
anything better that if you allowed them
democracy they would collapse into
something worse
than the citator ship now communism is
one example of something worse anarchy
just violence lawlessness in the streets
whatever various things are imagined
that poverty would get out of control of
course they imagine it's worse if the
country gets four they also imagine it's
worse if the poor rise up and kill the
rich etc and said are there all these
fears but the pessimists vote democracy
and the excuse for supporting
dictatorship was based on the assumption
which is ultimately racist and deeply
elitist
that only some people in the world
somehow are equipped for democracy like
that there's something special about the
Swiss though there's something special
about the Danish or the Scottish this is
kind of oddly parallel to Bernie Sanders
now asking the question Bernie Sanders
goes around and confronts other American
politicians and says what do you think
the Scottish have that we don't have why
is it the Scottish can have health care
cheap University not free but cheap in
Germany it's free you know other
countries in Europe have free tuition or
very very low tuition what is it that
special about Canada that Canada can
provide health care for the poor in the
United States cannot what do you like
what is the what is the inadequacy in
the American people what is it in us
that you imagine and of course you know
it's it's just challenging the absurdity
of those assumptions now people on the
far left tend to reject the potential
for a democracy real world practical
parliamentary democracy non-ideal
democracy for completely different
reasons they will for example sometimes
construe that if the people had
democracy that would only result in the
rich exploiting the poor that that would
never represent the interests of the
majority ironically because mature
democracy is all about majority rule and
the hard left
the real communists will basically try
to create a scenario in which the only
solution for the problems the country is
in is revolution is class war because
the central philosophy of Marxism
which has passed on into socialism and
communism is the idea that the only way
history makes progress is through class
war and anything else is an unwanted
describe distraction so hilariously it
really is hilarious you can read
communist propaganda from Thailand in
the 1970s and 1980s
now again Thailand is not paradise but
on a shallow level okay so these people
under the palm trees and on the rice
farms of Thailand trying to sincerely
publish and pass out communist
literature saying like oh these problems
with government they can never be solved
unless you have this terrible violent
you know revolution zone and anyone
looking at the pragmatic situation in
Thailand and Thailand is not that far
away from Cambodia and Vietnam corners
that became communist could say no no no
no these problems can be solved whatever
it is corruption
you know police bribery in hook time and
had problems but you know what I can
think of better ways to solve them than
getting rid of democracy maybe it's
making democracy more more robust to
what have you there is a great deal of
utterly insincere anti-democratic
pessimistic sentiment and this is a new
school of it now I would call this the
kind of I don't know final stages of
neoliberal ideology this is a book you
can actually guess just in the title and
subtitle this is one of my professors at
University of Victoria wrote this will
go on globalization against democracy a
political economy of capitalism at risk
ultra the basic thesis of this book is
that neoliberalism has created a
situation in which there is no advantage
for China or any country to transition
to democracy or maintain a democracy
that somehow the socio-economic and free
market conditions of the era when you're
living and encourages the world to
organize itself into a bunch of
capitalistic cater ships along the lines
of China and some other strongman
nations that there there is no sort of
force of gravity pulling them down to to
democracy and in the late neoliberal era
and this is all very insincere and is
strangely uninformed by real-world
examples so what I've talked to both
left and right wingers in person
face-to-face and I've asked them about
actual real-world transitions to
democracy it would not be an
exaggeration to say they are flummoxed
okay
fascism sounds very scary how did Spain
make the transition from fascism to
democracy I think I first researched
this it may be 14 years old it's such a
distant memory
you know I'm really not clear on it and
as you can imagine at that early age and
this is before the internet email
existed but the Internet in its current
form didn't exist you couldn't just ask
a question and get a wealth of
information like that you know it was
going to kind of very basic history
books and encyclopedias and trying to
find out okay so what happened what
happened when Spain went from being a
fascist dictatorship to a democracy and
these accounts were so brief and so
bland the answer seemed to be nothing
happened there was no revolution there
was no blood in the streets
there was no hunting down and executing
of the fascists there was this
transition that was forgettable and the
whole world has forgotten it and that's
exactly the most important kind of
transition for us to study and learn
from and that is what's possible for
Vietnam that is what's possible for
North Korea they can make the transition
to parliamentary democracy just as
smoothly and just as easily as Spain did
or better I believe the record holder
for the most rapid transition to real
democracy in this sense parliamentary
modern maister nobbut I think the record
holder is Mongolia and again when I talk
to people even professors with PhDs
specialized in the political history of
Asia they are flummoxed like Oh didn't
you know there's this enormous part in
the of Asia in the middle of the map
that made a bloodless transition from
total
communist dictatorship I mean it was it
was just as brutal as any of the other
comedy ships it really was to basically
total democracy again it's not paradise
after that democracy there's a lot of
corruption but you know where they have
elections and a free press and debate
and a parliament and all the other
features of democracy and like the
United States people tend to complain
that it's the millionaire's who keep
getting elected to keep one flesh you
know people like Mongolia is equivalent
to Donald Trump you know I mean but
nevertheless they made this transition
and they even you know put some of the
put some of the old communist leaders
who were guilty of crimes against
humanity on trial they had you know
their equivalent in Nuremberg trials and
they did it in months they did it so
rapidly and you guessed what happened
again I know more about both these
examples this is a brief youtube video
but in a sense nothing happened right
this is the problem people want to deal
with history as a series of moral fables
you know like Little Red Riding Hood
what a dramatic twist in the tale our
memories and minds naturally latch onto
the most salacious and most extreme
examples right people talk about
learning the lessons of history in this
very facile very shallow way but history
doesn't show that the transition to
democracy is something difficult to
attain or difficult to maintain it shows
paradoxically that it's easy and I've
had to challenge people in this face to
face
just as before I was saying Bernie
Sanders asks look what's the difference
between Americans and Scottish people do
you think Scottish people have a higher
level of education do you think they're
Superman Imams do they have a higher
level of wealth what do you think it is
what's why do you think the Scottish can
have health care for the poor and
Americans cannot you have no idea how
devastating it is to an ethnically
Chinese professor of political science
when you
what do you think Mongolians have do you
think Mongolians are smarter than you as
Chinese people do you think Mongolians
have a higher level of education do you
think they're wealthier than you do you
think they're more technologically at
events why do you think Mongolians were
able to make that transition and you
were not it's not the only question you
could ask of course Asia has its handful
of other successful democracies Taiwan
being one of them
that's why we're going to Taiwan Japan
product of unique historical
circumstances each country it's the part
unique historical services is another
but the point is the transition from
dictatorship to democracy need not
involve an atom bomb and for the most
part pessimism about it whether purely
academic or motivated by left-wing
revolutionary sentiment or the
right-wing sentiment of making excuses
for client holistic dictatorships set up
by and maintained by American interests
that pessimism really is misplaced